SOURCE URL: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging
SCRAPED: 2025-06-19 18:31:13
================================================================================

Edit
Debug code with Visual Studio Code
Visual Studio Code has rich support for debugging various types of applications. VS Code has built-in support for JavaScript, TypeScript, and Node.js debugging. The
Visual Studio Marketplace
has a wide variety of debugging extensions to add debugging support for other languages and runtimes to VS Code.
This article describes the debugging features of VS Code and how to get started with debugging in VS Code. You also learn how you can use Copilot in VS Code to accelerate setting up your debugging configuration and starting a debugging session.
The following video shows how to get started with debugging in VS Code.
Debugger user interface
The following diagram shows the main components of the debugger user interface:
Run and Debug view
: displays all information related to running, debugging, and managing debug configuration settings.
Debug toolbar
: has buttons for the most common debugging actions.
Debug console
: enables viewing and interacting with the output of your code running in the debugger.
Debug sidebar
: during a debug session, lets you interact with the call stack, breakpoints, variables, and watch variables.
menu: has the most common run and debug commands.
Before you start debugging
Install a debugging extension from the
Visual Studio Marketplace
for your language or runtime.
VS Code has built-in support for JavaScript, TypeScript, and Node.js debugging.
Define a debugging configuration for your project.
For simple applications, VS Code tries to run and debug the currently active file. For more complex applications or debugging scenarios, you need to create a
--- CODE BLOCK 1 ---
launch.json
--- END CODE BLOCK ---
file to specify the debugger configuration. Get more information about creating a
debug configuration
Copilot in VS Code can help generate the
--- CODE BLOCK 2 ---
launch.json
--- END CODE BLOCK ---
file for you. For more information, see
Use Copilot to generate debugging configurations
Set breakpoints in your code.
A breakpoint is a marker that you can set on a line of code to tell the debugger to pause execution when it reaches that line. You can set breakpoints by clicking in the gutter next to the line number in the editor.
For more information about breakpoints, see
Working with Breakpoints
Start a debugging session
To start a debugging session in VS Code, perform the following steps:
Open the file that contains the code you want to debug.
Start a debugging session with the
key or select
Run and Debug
in the
Run and Debug
view (
--- CODE BLOCK 3 ---
workbench.view.debug
--- END CODE BLOCK ---
For more complex debugging scenarios like attaching to a running process, you need to create a
--- CODE BLOCK 4 ---
launch.json
--- END CODE BLOCK ---
file to specify the debugger configuration. Get more information about
debug configurations
Choose the debugger you want to use from the list of available debuggers.
VS Code tries to run and debug the currently active file. For Node.js, VS Code checks for a
--- CODE BLOCK 6 ---
package.json
--- END CODE BLOCK ---
script in the
[CODE_BLOCK_6]
file to determine the entry point of the application.
When a debugging session starts, the
DEBUG CONSOLE
panel is displayed and shows debugging output, and the Status Bar changes color (orange for default color themes).
The debug status in the Status Bar shows the active debug configuration. Select the debug status to change the active launch configuration and start debugging without needing to open the
Run and Debug
view.
Debug actions
Once a debug session starts, the Debug toolbar appears at the top of the window. The toolbar contains actions to control the flow of the debug session, such as stepping through code, pausing execution, and stopping the debug session.
The following table describes the actions available in the debug toolbar:
Action
Description
Continue / Pause
Continue
: Resume normal program/script execution (up to the next breakpoint).
Pause
: Inspect code executing at the current line and debug line-by-line.
Step Over
Execute the next method as a single command without inspecting or following its component steps.
Step Into
Enter the next method to follow its execution line-by-line.
Step Out
Shift+F11
When inside a method or subroutine, return to the earlier execution context by completing remaining lines of the current method as though it were a single command.
Restart
Ctrl+Shift+F5
Terminate the current program execution and start debugging again using the current run configuration.
Stop
Shift+F5
Terminate the current program execution.
If your debugging sessions involve multiple targets (for example, a client and a server), the debug toolbar shows the list of sessions and lets you switch between them.
Use the
debug.toolBarLocation
setting to control the location of the Debug toolbar. It can be the default
[CODE_BLOCK_7]
[CODE_BLOCK_8]
to the
Run and Debug
view, or
[CODE_BLOCK_9]
. A floating debug toolbar can be dragged horizontally and also down to the editor area (up to a certain distance from the top edge).
Breakpoints
A breakpoint is a special marker that pauses the execution of your code at a specific point, so you can inspect the state of your application at that point. VS Code supports several types of breakpoints.
Setting breakpoints
To set or unset a breakpoint, click on the
editor margin
or use
on the current line.
Breakpoints in the editor margin are normally shown as red filled circles.
Disabled breakpoints have a filled gray circle.
When a debugging session starts, breakpoints that can't be registered with the debugger change to a gray hollow circle. The same might happen if the source is edited while a debug session without live-edit support is running.
Optionally, breakpoints can be shown in the editor's overview ruler by enabling the setting
debug.showBreakpointsInOverviewRuler
For more control of your breakpoints, use the
Run and Debug
view's
BREAKPOINTS
section. This section lists all breakpoints in your code and provides extra actions to manage them.
Breakpoint types
Conditional breakpoints
A powerful VS Code debugging feature is the ability to set conditions based on expressions, hit counts, or a combination of both.
Expression condition
: The breakpoint is hit whenever the expression evaluates to
[CODE_BLOCK_10]
Hit count
: The
hit count
controls how many times a breakpoint needs to be hit before it interrupts execution. Whether a hit count is respected, and the exact syntax of the expression, can vary among debugger extensions.
Wait for breakpoint
: The breakpoint is activated when another breakpoint is hit (
triggered breakpoint
To add a conditional breakpoint:
Create a conditional breakpoint
Right-click in the editor margin and select
Add Conditional Breakpoint
Use the
Add Conditional Breakpoint
command in the Command Palette (
Ctrl+Shift+P
Choose the type of condition you want to set (expression, hit count, or wait for breakpoint).
To add a condition to an existing breakpoint:
Edit an existing breakpoint
Right-click on the breakpoint in the editor margin and select
Edit Breakpoint
Select the pencil icon next for an existing breakpoint in the
BREAKPOINTS
section of the
Run and Debug
view.
Edit the condition (expression, hit count, or wait for breakpoint).
If a debugger does not support conditional breakpoints, the
Add Conditional Breakpoint
Edit Condition
actions are not available.
Triggered breakpoints
A triggered breakpoint is type of conditional breakpoint that is enabled once another breakpoint is hit. They can be useful when diagnosing failure cases in code that happen only after a certain precondition.
Triggered breakpoints can be set by right-clicking on the glyph margin, selecting
Add Triggered Breakpoint
, and then choosing which other breakpoint enables the breakpoint.
Inline breakpoints
Inline breakpoints are only hit when the execution reaches the column associated with the inline breakpoint. This is useful when debugging minified code, which contains multiple statements in a single line.
An inline breakpoint can be set using
Shift+F9
or through the context menu during a debug session. Inline breakpoints are shown inline in the editor.
Inline breakpoints can also have conditions. Editing multiple breakpoints on a line is possible through the context menu in the editor's left margin.
Function breakpoints
Instead of placing breakpoints directly in source code, a debugger can support creating breakpoints by specifying a function name. This is useful in situations where source is not available but a function name is known.
To create a function breakpoint, select the
button in the
BREAKPOINTS
section header and enter the function name. Function breakpoints are shown with a red triangle in the
BREAKPOINTS
section.
Data breakpoints
If a debugger supports data breakpoints, they can be set from the context menu in the
VARIABLES
view. The
Break on Value Change/Read/Access
commands add a data breakpoint that is hit when the value of the underlying variable changes/is read/is accessed. Data breakpoints are shown with a red hexagon in the
BREAKPOINTS
section.
Logpoints
A logpoint is a variant of a breakpoint that does not interrupt into the debugger, but instead logs a message to the debug console. Logpoints can help you save time by not having to add or remove logging statements in your code.
A logpoint is represented by a diamond-shaped icon. Log messages are plain text but can also include expressions to be evaluated within curly braces ('{}').
To add a logpoint, right-click in the editor left margin and select
Add Logpoint
, or use the
Debug: Add Logpoint...
command in the Command Palette (
Ctrl+Shift+P
). You can also configure the setting
debug.gutterMiddleClickAction
to toggle a logpoint when pressing the middle mouse button in the editor gutter.
Just like regular breakpoints, logpoints can be enabled or disabled and can also be controlled by a condition and/or hit count.
Note
Debugger extensions can choose to implement logpoints or not.
Data inspection
Run and Debug view
During a debugging session, you can inspect variables and expressions in the
VARIABLES
section of the
Run and Debug
view or by hovering over their source in the editor. Variable values and expression evaluation are relative to the selected stack frame in the
CALL STACK
section.
To change the value of a variable during the debugging session, right-click on the variable in the
VARIABLES
section and select
Set Value
Additionally, you can use the
Copy Value
action to copy the variable's value, or the
Copy as Expression
action to copy an expression to access the variable. You can then use this expression in the
WATCH
section.
Variables and expressions can also be evaluated and watched in the
Run and Debug
view's
WATCH
section.
To filter variables by their name or value, use the
Ctrl+Alt+F
keyboard shortcut while the focus is on the
VARIABLES
section, and type a search term.
Debug console REPL
Expressions can be evaluated with the
Debug Console
REPL (
Read-Eval-Print Loop
) feature. To open the Debug Console, use the
Debug Console
action at the top of the Debug pane or use the
View: Debug Console
command (
Ctrl+Shift+Y
Expressions are evaluated after you press
Enter
and the Debug Console REPL shows suggestions as you type. If you need to enter multiple lines, use
Shift+Enter
between the lines and then send all lines for evaluation with
Enter
Debug Console input uses the mode of the active editor, which means that the Debug Console input supports syntax coloring, indentation, auto closing of quotes, and other language features.
Note
You must be in an active debugging session to use the Debug Console REPL.
Multi-target debugging
For complex scenarios that involve more than one process (for example, a client and a server), VS Code supports multi-target debugging. After you've started a first debug session, you can launch another debug session. As soon as a second session is up and running, the VS Code UI switches to
multi-target mode
The individual sessions now show up as top-level elements in the
CALL STACK
view.
The debug toolbar shows the currently
active session
(and all other sessions are available in a dropdown menu).
Debug actions (for example, all actions in the debug toolbar) are performed on the active session. The active session can be changed either by using the dropdown menu in the debug toolbar or by selecting a different element in the
CALL STACK
view.
Remote debugging
VS Code does not support built-in remote debugging across all languages. Remote debugging is a feature of the debug extension you are using, and you should consult the extension's page in the
Marketplace
for support and details.
There is, however, one exception: the Node.js debugger included in VS Code supports remote debugging. For more information, see
Node.js Debugging
Debugger extensions
VS Code has built-in debugging support for the
Node.js
runtime and can debug JavaScript, TypeScript, or any other language that gets transpiled to JavaScript.
For debugging other languages and runtimes (including
Ruby
Python
PowerShell
many others
), look for
[CODE_BLOCK_11]
extensions in the
Visual Studio Marketplace
, or select
Install Additional Debuggers
in the top-level Run menu.
These are several popular extensions that include debugging support:
Python
173.4M
ms-python
C/C++
84.5M
ms-vscode
Python Debugger
82.6M
ms-python
CMake Tools
48.0M
ms-vscode
Next steps
To learn about VS Code's Node.js debugging support, take a look at:
Node.js
- Describes the Node.js debugger, which is included in VS Code.
TypeScript
- The Node.js debugger also supports TypeScript debugging.
To see a tutorial on the basics of debugging, check out this video:
Getting started with debugging in VS Code
- Learn about debugging in VS Code.
To learn more about Copilot and AI-assisted debugging in VS Code:
Debugging and fixing issues with Copilot
Copilot cheat sheet for debugging and fixing issues
To learn about debugging support for other programming languages via VS Code extensions:
Python
Java
To learn about VS Code's task running support, go to:
Tasks
- Describes how to run tasks with Gulp, Grunt, and Jake and how to show errors and warnings.
To write your own debugger extension, visit:
Debugger Extension
- Uses a mock sample to illustrate the steps required to create a VS Code debug extension.
Common questions
What are the supported debugging scenarios?
Debugging of Node.js-based applications is supported on Linux, macOS, and Windows out of the box with VS Code. Many other scenarios are supported by
VS Code extensions
available in the Marketplace.
Was this documentation helpful?
, this page was helpful
, this page was not helpful
06/12/2025