URL: https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/14397859494295-State-management-for-prototypes
==================================================

Before you start
Who can use this feature
Available on
any team or plan
Anyone with
can edit
access to a file can create prototypes.
In prototypes, we want our interactions to feel as much like the real thing as possible—especially when moving back and forth across multiple frames.
State management
allows us to maintain object properties and states when navigating in and across frames when playing prototypes.
State management can be used with
interactive components
scroll position
, and
videos in prototypes
in three ways:
State memorization:
Preserve the state of an object when you leave and return to the frame
State sharing:
Share states between matching objects in different frames
State reset:
Reset object states on each interaction
In order to share states across frames,
objects must match
Updates to preserve scroll position
We’ve made updates to the
Preserve scroll position
setting. Scroll position of top-level frames is now preserved automatically, as long as the top-level frame names have identical names or a shared prefix.
Bulk rename layers
to add a shared prefix.
Learn more about
preserving scroll position →
State memorization
When you navigate back and forth between frames, objects re-open in their last set state.
Interactive components
Figma memorizes the last set variant of your interactive component.
For example, you might have an interactive component for a checkbox. If you set the interactive component to the checked variant, Figma remembers the state of that variant. This means that if you navigate away from that frame and come back to it later, the interactive component will remain in the checked state.
Scroll position
Figma memorizes your scroll position.
For example, you might have a map with horizontal and vertical scrolling enabled. If you scroll to a specific location on the map, Figma remembers the position of your scroll. This means that if you navigate away from that frame and come back to it later, you will remain scrolled to the same location on the map.
Videos
Figma memorizes the play state of any videos used in your prototypes.
For example, you might start playing a video on one frame. When you get to the 5 second mark, you navigate to another frame. If you go back to the original frame, the video will continue playing from the 5 second mark, right where you left off.
State sharing
When you navigate between frames with
matching objects
, the state of the first object is shared with the second object.
Interactive components
Figma shares states between matching interactive components. States are only shared after the component has been initially interacted with.
For example, you might have an interactive component for a checkbox, with an instance of the unchecked variant on each of two frames. When you play your prototype, you check the checkbox in the first frame. Then, when you navigate to the second frame, the matching component on the second frame will also be set to the checked variant.
Scroll position
Figma shares scroll position between matching objects.
For example, you might have a map with horizontal and vertical scrolling enabled on each of two frames. If you scroll to a specific location on the map, then navigate to the second frame, the matching map object on the second frame will be scrolled to the same location.
Videos
Figma shares video play state between matching objects.
For example, you might start playing a video on one frame. When you navigate to a second frame with a matching video object, the video on the second frame will continue playing from where you left off.
State reset
When users are navigating through prototypes, an object’s state may need to be reset on specific interactions. Object states should be reset on the interaction that navigates to the next frame.
Click on a prototype connection to open the
Interaction details
panel.
In the
State Management
section of the panel, check off any of the following settings:
Reset scroll position
: Reset to original scroll location
Reset component state
: Reset to original component state, as set on the canvas
Reset video state
: Restart the video from the beginning, and reset to its original play state
Note:
The reset settings only appear on the
Interaction details
panel if they are relevant to the currently selected interaction. For example, if the interaction connects to a frame without a video, there won’t be a
Reset video state
setting.
Interactive components
Reset interactive component states to their original state, as set on the canvas.
For example, you might have an interactive component for a loading bar with
empty
and
complete
variants.
You want the loading bar to restart on the
empty
variant when the user clicks a reload button, so you check off the
Reset component state
setting on the button interaction.
Scroll position
Use
Reset scroll position
to return to the original scroll location, as set on the canvas.
For example, you might have a map with horizontal and vertical scrolling enabled. You want to return to the original scroll location when navigating between frames, so you check off the
Reset scroll position
setting on the interaction.
Videos
Restart the video from the beginning, and reset to its original play state, as set on canvas.
For example, you might start playing a video on one frame. When you get to the 5 second mark, you navigate to another frame. When you return to the original frame, you want to restart the video from the beginning, so you check off the
Reset video state
setting on the interaction.
Matching objects
In order to share states across frames, objects must match.
Learn more about
matching objects →
To identify objects that match between frames:
Open the
Prototype
tab in the right sidebar.
Hover over an object or layer in the canvas.
Figma will highlight the matching object in any other frames it exists in.
Nested objects
Objects are considered matching if they have the same layer name and the same
set of parents
across top-level frames.
Tip:
If you don’t want the state to be shared across two objects, you can rename them so they no longer match.
Top-level frames
Top-level frames are frames directly placed on the canvas. Since top-level frames don’t have parent objects, you can match them by doing one of the following:
Use identical layer names
Use layer names with matching strings and forward slashes. For example, a top-level frame with the name
Checkout / 1
will match another top-level frame with the name
Checkout /
, since everything before the forward slash is identical.
Tip:
Need to rename layers? Learn how to
rename layers in bulk →
Update to new state management
Figma updated to its current state management controls on May 24, 2023.
For prototype interactions that were created before May 24, 2023:
Interactive components cannot share states across frames
Scrolling objects cannot memorize their state when re-opened
Scrolling objects can share states across frames
only
the
Preserve scroll position
setting is checked
Note:
In new interactions, scroll position is shared automatically, as long as
object names match across frames
Learn more about
preserving scroll position and transitioning to new state management →
To update any older interactions to the new state management controls:
Click on a prototype connection to open the
Interaction details
panel.
Click
Update
Tip:
Once you update an interaction, a success message appears at the bottom of the canvas. Click the
Update all
button on the success message banner in order to update all other interactions in the file.