URL: https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/15253268379799-Variable-modes-in-prototypes
==================================================

Before you start
Who can use this feature
Use variables with prototypes on
any paid plan
. The number of variable modes available per collection depends on your plan.
Anyone with
can edit
access to a file can create prototypes.
Anyone with
can view
can view prototypes only
access to a file can view prototypes.
Each variable in your collection can have multiple modes. You can select and use the values for specific modes in your prototyping actions and expressions.
There are several ways you can use variable modes to enhance your prototyping experience:
Set mode values based on context
: Use multiple mode values of the same variable in your design, and change their values independently in the same interaction
Use mode values in expressions
: Use the values of specific mode definitions to build interactions and perform calculations
Change variable mode with an interaction
: Use a prototype interaction to change the variable mode of a page
New to variables? Learn more here:
Guide to variables →
Use variables in prototypes →
Want to get more hands on practice?
Check out the
advanced prototyping playground file →
Set mode values based on context
When a variable has multiple mode definitions, use the
Set variable
action and mode context to change the value of a specific mode definition.
This can be helpful when modifying only one mode definition of a variable. When displaying or using multiple modes of the same variable in a design, adjust their values independently from each other.
For example, take a look at the design below:
Each produce item has a counter to adjust the number of items added to the cart.
If a number variable with only a single mode is used to represent the item count, a unique variable and interaction would be needed for each product listing.
Instead, you can use a number variable with multiple modes—one for each unique produce item.
By using multiple modes, each item count can be updated separately.
Set the mode
on the parent layers or objects.
Select the layer, group, or object that contains the applied variable. (For example, select the frame that contains the product image and information for the melon.)
From the
Appearance
section of the right sidebar, click
Apply variable mode
Hover over a variable collection and choose a mode. (Select the “melon” mode.)
Repeat for any other objects or layers that only apply to a specific mode. (Apply the “shiitakes” mode to the frame that contains the product image and information for the shiitake mushrooms).
Change the value of the applied variable with the
Set variable
prototype action. (For example, create a
Set variable
interaction on the + icon for each product counter. Set the
Amount in basket
variable to
Amount in basket + 1
Any variables contained within a layer that has a set mode will only update the value of that specific mode definition.
Tip:
Use
components
to save even more time while prototyping with modes. With components, you’ll only need to create the interaction once. Then, place multiple instances on the frame, and change the applied mode for each instance.
Use mode values in expressions
Select mode definitions in prototype actions
To select specific variable modes in prototypes:
Create or click on an existing prototype connection to open the
Interaction
modal.
Click on any variable name that you’ve used in the interaction.
From the
Modes
dropdown menu, select a specific mode of that variable.
Once you’ve selected a mode, the variable is represented with both the variable name and mode name:
variableName:modeName
Tip:
You can also use your keyboard to build expressions. To select a specific mode in the expression builder, enter in a variable. Then, press ← to highlight the variable name, and use your ↑ up and ↓ down arrows to select the mode. Press
enter
to confirm.
Build expressions with mode values
Use expressions with variable modes to calculate values across a single variable.
This can be helpful when writing expressions that use multiple mode definitions of one variable.
For example, consider the same design from above. This time, there are fields to calculate the item subtotal of each produce item, and an overall total to calculate the total price of the entire order.
Tip:
In order to apply different modes of the same variable on a the same design,
apply a variable mode to the frame or component layer
Now, take a look at the variable collection:
When using expressions, there are times when you’ll need separate values for each variable mode. For example, to calculate the
subtotal
of each produce type, use an expression that multiplies the mode’s
Price
by its
Amount in basket
Other times, you’ll need a single variable value to represent the total of different modes. For example, to calculate the order total, create a new variable collection for the
cartTotal
variable with only one mode.
Want to learn more best practices for prototyping with variables? Subscribe to
Figma’s YouTube channel
Change variable mode with an interaction
Use the
Set variable mode
prototype action to change the variable mode of the current page.
For example, if you have a design with a light and dark mode, you can use the
Set variable mode
action to switch between modes while playing a prototype.
To use the
Set variable mode
prototype action:
Create a
prototype interaction
For the prototype action, select
Set variable mode
and do the following:
From the first dropdown menu, select a variable collection.
From the second dropdown menu, select a variable mode.
The
Set variable mode
action changes the mode for the current page, and will change the mode for any objects on that page that have their mode set to
Auto
. Any mode explicitly defined on an object will still be used for itself and any nested children, regardless of the page level mode.
Learn more about setting variable modes on objects →