URL: https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040450513-Create-layout-guides
==================================================

Note
: The Figma feature "layout grid" has been renamed to "layout guide" as of May 2025, and is a different feature from the
grid option in auto layout
Layout guides are visual aids added to frames to ensure objects are precisely aligned and to help provide structure so we can keep designs logical and consistent across different platforms and devices.
Use layout guides to:
Establish consistency across multiple platforms
Make fewer decisions when defining layouts
Reduce the time taken to define layouts for mock-ups or wireframes
Support diverse layout techniques like galleries, icons, or entire page layouts
Tip
: Learn more about using grid systems in Figma Design in the blog post,
Grid Systems for Screen Design
Layout guide types
There are three types of layout guides: Uniform
grid
column
, and
row
Uniform grid
A uniform grid is square grid, useful when you require precision such as designing symbols or icons.
If you select a uniform grid, you can adjust its color and size.
Color
The default color of a layout guide is red (#FF0000), with an opacity of 10%. You can change the
Color
and
Opacity
of any layout guide.
Size
The size determines the pixel size of each square of the grid.
For example, in a default
10pt
grid, each square of the grid will contain be 10px by 10px, totaling 100 pixels per square.
Column and row
Columns
are vertical guides that span the height of a frame.
Rows
are horizontal guides that span the width of a frame. Both are ideal for designing responsive interfaces for web and mobile.
Both columns and rows have similar property types that you can adjust.
Color
The default color of a layout guide is red (#FF0000), with an opacity of 10%. You can change the
Color
and
Opacity
of any layout guide.
Count
Count
determines the number of columns or rows in your guide.
Click into the filed to type a number, or use the dropdown to choose from a number,
apply a variable
if any are available, or
Auto
Type
Column
types: Left, Center, Right, or Stretch.
Row
types: Top, Center, Bottom, or Stretch.
Stretch
allows the width of columns or height of rows to adapt their size whenever the frame is resized. When this type is selected, the width or height field in the layout guide settings window is disabled and set to
Auto
. Stretch also has a unique setting called
margin
The remainder of column and row types (left, right, top, bottom, and center) are sometimes referred to as “
fixed
”. This setting determines the side of the frame in which the layout guide begins.
For example, a column with a fixed type
Right
means the column will begin from the right side of the frame and make its way to the left side.
With fixed layout guides, you have the option to set the
width of columns or height of rows
, as well as their
offset
Height/Width
Set the
height
of rows or
width
of columns to define their exact size in pixels (px). Available for fixed types only (left, right, top, bottom, and center). The height/width field is disabled and set to auto for stretch types.
Offset (Fixed type only)
The
Offset
setting defines the pixel position where columns and rows begin. Offset is available for columns set to left or right, and rows set to top or bottom.
For example, if you have a
Row
layout guide set to
Bottom
with an offset of 16, the first row of your layout guide will begin 16px from the bottom of the frame.
Margin (Stretch type only)
Margin
defines how much space there is between either sides of your columns or rows and the frame in pixels (px). This setting is available for the
Stretch
type only.
Gutter (Stretch type only)
Gutter
defines how much space there is between each column or row and the frame in pixels (px). This setting is available for the
Stretch
type only.
Add and edit a layout guide
You can add a layout guide to any frame. Remember that components are also frames, so you can add them to components too.
To add a layout guide:
Select a frame.
Click
Add layout guide
in the
Layout guide
section of the right sidebar. A
uniform grid
will be applied to the frame by default.
To edit a layout guide, you can click on the
Layout guide settings
icon to change the layout guide type and adjust its settings.
Tip:
You can use one layout guide on its own or combine multiple layout guides to support more complex layouts. Learn more about
combining layout guides
Combine layout guides
As we mentioned above, you can add many layout guides to a single frame. This is handy when developing more complex Layouts.
For example, you can add both
Column
and
Row
layout guides for more control over vertical and horizontal alignment.
Select the frame you would like to add another layout guide to.
Click
next to
Layout guide
in the right sidebar.
Select the layout guide in the dropdown provided.
Define any other relevant properties.
Repeat to add more layout guides to the frame.
Hide or show layout guides
You can toggle the visibility of your layout guides. This is great for situations when you need to hide your layout guides, without removing them entirely. Layout guides will still work, even when they aren't visible.
To toggle the visibility for all layout guides in a file at once:
Open the
Zoom/view options
dropdown menu at the top of the right sidebar.
Click
Layout guides
to check (enable) or uncheck (disable) the setting. Or, you can press
Shift
on your keyboard.
To hide or show a specific layout guides:
Select the frame where the layout guide exists.
From the
Layout guide
section of the right sidebar, find the layout guide you want to toggle, and click
to show/hide it.
Create and apply layout guide styles
Once you have perfected the ideal layout guide, you can create a style to reuse it across your designs.
Learn more about creating styles.
Create a layout guide style
To create a new layout guide style:
Select a frame in the canvas with the layout guide(s) applied.
In the right sidebar, click
Apply styles
in the
Layout guide
section.
Click
Create style
Give the layout guide style a name and description.
Click
Create style
Apply a layout guide style
To apply a layout guide style:
Create or select a frame in the canvas.
In the right sidebar, click
Apply styles
in the
Layout guide
section.
Choose a layout guide style from the list to apply it to the frame.
Note:
Related Components will be determined by:
Select the frame you want to copy.
Click on the layout guide in the right sidebar.
When it is highlighted, use the keyboard shortcuts to copy the layout guide:
Mac
⌘ Command
Windows
Ctrl
Select the frame you want to apply the layout guide to.
Use the keyboard shortcut to paste the layout guide:
Mac
⌘ Command
Windows
Ctrl
Work with layout guides and constraints
For more complex designs, we need precision and flexibility to ensure our designs behave when resized.
Constraints are great at giving you a basic framework for where objects are positioned within a frame. When combined with layout guides, they provide the framework for a powerful layout system.
Learn more about combining guides and constraints.
8-point grid system
The 8-point grid system is a popular tool for designing UI layouts. It involves using multiples of 8 to define the placement of objects within your design.
You can use this system when designing for fixed constraints, like a mobile app. But it can also be a useful tool when designing responsive layouts.
There are two common methods for implementing the 8-point system:
Hard grid
: This involves placing objects on a fixed grid with 8-point increments. In Figma, this would involve applying a uniform grid to the frame with a size of
Soft grid:
This involves placing objects at distances from each other that are divisible by 8. This would involve applying a row or column layout guide with properties divisible by 8.
Learn more about the 8-point grid in this Spec.fm post.
Frequently asked questions
Can I toggle all layout guides at once?
Yes. This can be done from the View Settings menu in the top-right corner of Figma.
Learn more in the toggling layout guides section.
Why aren't my layout guides showing?
There are a couple of reasons why a layout guide may not be showing:
The layout guide has been toggled
off
in the right sidebar.
Layout guides have been toggled
off
globally.
The selected layer isn't a frame. Layout guides can only be applied to frames.
The frame has been rotated. Make sure your objects have their
rotation
set to 0º before applying a layout guide.
How do I copy layout guides?
You can copy a single layout guide and apply this to another frame. Or, you can create a layout guide style that can be reused across your designs.
Learn more in our layout guide styles section.