URL: https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/15145852043927-Create-and-manage-variables-and-collections
==================================================

Before you Start
Who can use this feature
Anyone on
any plan
Anyone with
can edit
access to a file can create and edit variables
Looking for more resources on variables?
Check out our guide to variables
Access the Variables modal
Use the
Variables
modal to create and manage:
Variable collections
Variables
Modes for variables
Variable groups
To access the
Variables
modal:
Deselect everything on the canvas by pressing
esc
or clicking the canvas.
From the right sidebar, find the
Local variables
section.
Click
Open variables.
You can click
Toggle sidebar
to see additional options in the variables modal.
Create a variable
From any collection, click
+ Create variable
Select a
variable type
from the dropdown.
Give the variable a name in the first column, and a value in the second column.
Tip
You can also create a variable using the
eyedropper tool
Each collection can have up to 5,000 variables.
To duplicate a variable, select one or more variables and press
⇧ Shift
Enter
To delete a variable, right click the variable and select
Delete variable
Tip
Those on Education or paid plans can add additional columns to store multiple values in a variable, allowing you to quickly switch between different contexts in designs. Learn how to
create multiple modes for variables
Create an alias
Create an alias for a variable to link its value to an existing variable. This allows you to implement design tokens and makes managing updates to your designs more efficient.
For example, say you have multiple color variables that reference the same color variable. If that color needs updating, you would only need to update the source instead of manually updating every instance of the color.
A variable can reference other variables of the same type.
To create an alias for a variable:
Open the
Variables
modal.
Right-click a variable’s value and select
Create alias
From the
Libraries
tab, choose a variable to set an alias. You can use the search bar to find a variable by name or browse through available libraries.
To detach an alias, hover over the value field and click
Detach alias.
Want to learn more about how aliasing works?
Check out the
Tokens, variables, and styles
lesson of Figma's Intro to Design Systems course.
Copy and paste variables
You can copy and paste variables to any collection, including collections in a different file.
Open the desired collection from the variables modal.
Select one or more variables.
Hold
⌘ Command
for Mac or
⌃ Control
for Windows to select multiple variables.
Hold
⇧ Shift
to select a range of variables.
Right-click the selection and select
Copy
From any collection, right-click and select
Paste
Edit a variable
Hover over a variable’s row and click the
Edit variable
icon to open its editing modal.
From there, you can:
Change the name of the variable.
Add a description to explain how the variable should be used.
Modify the values of the variable.
Add
code syntax
Hide the variable from publishing
Scope a variable
to limit which properties the variable can be applied to.
Scope a variable
Scope a variable to limit which properties the variable can be applied to. This reduces the guesswork when deciding which variables to use for your designs.
For example, if you scope a number variable to corner radius, the variable can only be applied to corner radius and won't appear as an option for any other supported properties.
Scoping is available for number, color, and string variables.
For number variables, you can scope:
Auto layout
Gap between
Padding
Corner radius
Font properties
Font weight
Font size
Line height
Letter spacing
Paragraph spacing
Paragraph indent
Layer opacity
Effects
Stroke
Text content
Width and height
For color variables, you can scope:
Effects
Frame fill
Shape fill
Stroke
Text fill
For string variables, you can scope:
Font family
Font weight or style
Text string
To scope a variable:
Right-click on a variable, or multiple variables, and select
Edit variable
. You can also click
Edit variable
, located to the right of any single variable.
Open the
Scope
tab.
Use the checkboxes to toggle the variable’s availability in that property. Check
Show in all
to make the variable available for all
supported properties
Add code syntax
Code syntax allows you to represent variables in code using valid variable names to support a seamless handoff experience. A variable’s code syntax will appear in code snippets in
Dev Mode
when inspecting elements using the variable. Currently, code snippets for variables are supported in CSS, SwiftUI, and Compose.
You can create one name per platform, including Web, Android, and iOS. This allows for up to three code syntaxes per variable.
To add code syntax to a variable:
From the
Code syntax
section of the the
Edit variable
modal, click
Add code syntax
From the dropdown, choose Web, Android, or iOS.
Use the input box to enter a variable name. A preview shows how the variable name appears in code snippets.
Tip:
In addition to viewing the code syntax, there are more ways to work with
variables in Dev Mode
. You can see variable details and suggested variables, and view local collections on the variables table.
Edit variables in bulk
To edit multiple variables at once:
Open any collection from the
Variables
modal.
Select multiple variables by using keyboard shortcuts:
Hold
⌘ Command
Control
and click to select individual variables
Hold
Shift
and click to select a range of variables
Right-click a selected variable and click
Edit variables
From the
Edit variables
modal, you can:
Scope variables, if supported by the variable type
Hide variables from publishing
Create and manage variable collections
A collection is a set of variables and modes. Collections can be used to organize related variables together. For example, use one collection to localize text in different languages, and another collection for spatial values.
Create a variable collection
To create a variable collection, go to the sidebar of the variables modal and click
More options
Create collection.
If a variable has not been created in a file, you will need to create a variable first in order to create new variable collections.
Tip
If your variable collection contains multiple variable modes, you can edit, reorder, and change the default mode my dragging the columns. Learn more about
variable modes
Rename a variable collection
To rename a variable collection:
In the sidebar of the variables modal, open the collections dropdown and choose the collection you want to manage.
Click
More options
and select
Rename collection
Delete a variable collection
Deleting a variable collection also deletes all of its containing variables. Any properties that were using the variables will no longer be connected to the variable and any existing modes. The variables and collection can only be restored by immediately undo-ing the action or by restoring an earlier version of the file.
To delete a variable collection:
In the sidebar of the variables modal, open the collections dropdown and choose the collection you want to manage.
Click
More options
and select
Delete collection.
Reorder variable collections in a file
Reorder your variable collections to organize and find variables faster when applying them to designs. Changing the order of variable collections will affect the order in which they appear from the variable mode selector and variable selectors.
To reorder variable collections in a file:
In the sidebar of the variables modal, click
More options
and select
Reorder collections
From the
Collections
popup, you can:
Click and drag to reorder the collections
Or click
Sort A to Z
to order collections in alphanumerical order
Group a selection of variables
You can further organize variables by adding them to groups within a collection. For example, use one group for colors used for text, and another for colors used on strokes.
To organize variables into a group:
From the
Variables
modal, select multiple variables:
Hold
⌘ Command
Control
to select multiple variables
Hold
⇧ Shift
to select a range of variables
Right-click the selection and select
New group with selection
Click and drag groups in the sidebar of the Variables modal to reorder groups. You can also click and drag groups into other groups to nest them.
Rename a group
In the sidebar of the variables modal, double click the group name.
Type a new name for the variable group.
Manage a group
In the sidebar of the variables modal, right-click the group name in the sidebar.
From the menu, choose from the following:
Ungroup
Duplicate group
Delete group
Ready to continue your variables journey?
Check out the following topics:
Publish variables to team libraries
Apply variables to designs
Create modes for variables
Use variables for advanced prototypes