URL: https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/360039818874-Smart-animate-layers-between-frames
==================================================

Before you start
Who can use this feature
Available on
any plan
Users with
can edit access
to a file can create and edit prototypes.
Users with
can view access
to a file or prototype can view prototypes.
Smart animate looks for matching layers, recognizes differences, and animates layers between frames in a prototype.
You can select
Smart animate
from the list of transitions, when building a prototype. You can also apply
Smart animate
with other transitions to create seamless animations.
Smart animate allows you to quickly create advanced animations. Use
Smart animate
to replicate:
Loading sequences
Parallax scrolling
Touch gestures, for example Drag, Swipe, Long-Press
Sliders, Toggles and Switches
Expanding content (Show more / Show Less)
Pull to refresh
Learn more about how we built smart animate in our Blog post:
Announcing smart animate
Supported properties
Smart animate looks for matching layers that exist across multiple frames. Figma takes into account both the
layer's name
and where it sits within the
hierarchy
For layers that match between frames, Figma recognizes what's changed and applies transition to animate between them.
You can apply smart animate to entire objects or Components, as well as individual layers within a Component or group.
It's likely that more than one of an object's properties will change between Frames. We've isolated each of the properties we support below, so you know what to expect.
Scale
If an object changes in size between frames, Figma will animate it shrinking or growing.
Position
Figma recognizes if an object's location, the x and y co-ordinates, have changed. It will then animate the object moving from its current position, to its position in the destination frame.
Opacity
Smart animate can also recognize a layer or object's opacity. You can adjust opacity to make an object to appear or disappear between frames.
Set the opacity of the layer to 0%, instead of toggling the layer visibility. Figma will apply a dissolve transition to animate the layer's opacity.
You can adjust opacity through a layer's Fill properties, as well as through the
Layer
property. Smart animate will apply to both.
We recommend adjusting the entire layer's opacity. Adjust the opacity
Layer
setting in the
Design
tab of the right sidebar.
Rotation
Smart animate also takes the layer's rotation and orientation into account.
You can
rotate an object
using the
rotation field in the right sidebar or in the canvas itself. Hover over the corner bounds of an object until the rotation cursor
appears.
Rotate a single layer at once, or rotate a group of them around a single anchor point.
Fill
Figma will smart animate any changes to an object's fill. This allows you to animate changes between solid colors, gradients and even image fills.
Things to note
Figma supports smart animate for layers with texture, noise, background blur, or layer blur
effects
applied. Because texture and noise effects are randomly generated, we recommend duplicating the frame to ensure smart animate works as expected. If the frames are not identical, Figma will apply a default dissolve transition.
Figma does not support smart animate for layers with drop shadow and inner shadow
effects
, or for moving between
shapes
. If a frame includes an unsupported property, Figma will apply a default dissolve transition.
Figma doesn't support smart animate for
overlay actions
. This is because Figma treats overlays as new frames. You can use smart animate when
swapping between overlays
, if those overlays have matching layers.
If you introduce a new layer in the destination frame, smart animate will dissolve the layer into view.
If a layer's properties stay the same between two frames, Figma won't animate that layer at all. This is great for status bars and menus, and interactions when you don't want to move to a different UI.
If you check the
Fix Position when Scrolling checkbox
for any layers, Figma will add them to the list of
Fixed
layers. Smart animate handles layers differently when you
combine
Smart animate
with other transitions
Apply smart animate
There are two ways you can use smart animate in your prototypes. As a stand alone transition, or by using
Smart animate matching layers
with another animation.
Smart animate
Select
Smart animate
in the transition field to animate between two frames.
Open the
Prototype
tab in the right sidebar.
Select layer, group, or frame in the canvas. A connection node will appear on the right-edge.
Click on the node and drag it to the next frame to create a connection.
Define the
Interaction
in the right sidebar by choosing a trigger and action. Figma will set the second frame as the destination.
In the
Animation
section, select
Smart animate
from the transition field.
Apply
Easing
to the transition, or change the
Duration
(optional).
Repeat for any other frames you want to smart animate.
Click the
in the toolbar to
open the prototype in Presentation View.
In our example below, we have three frames with some matching layers. We want smart animate to animate removing the Abel Tasman Coast Track from our list of favorites.
Smart animate now moves us smoothly between each frame in our prototype!
Smart animate matching layers
If you want to smart animate some layers in your prototype while using another main transition, you can check a box to
Smart animate matching layers
Figma treats fixed layers differently when using smart animate with other transitions.
Layers that don't match:
Figma will use the main
transition
you select.
Layers that do match:
Figma will
Smart animate
any differences for supported properties.
Fixed layers that do match
: Figma won't apply any transition.
Fixed layers that don't match
: Figma will apply a dissolve transition instead of the transition you select.
To use
Smart animate matching layers
, check the box in the right sidebar when adjust the animation:
In our example below, we have a status bar and navigation that exist across all three frames. We want these to stay in place when we switch between tabs.
We've selected a
Push
Transition to move between Frames. We choose not to check the box next to
Smart animate matching layers
When we view our Prototype, we can see that everything in our destination frame uses the
Push
transition. This makes it pretty obvious that we're moving between separate screens in a prototype.
If we check the box next to
Smart animate matching layers
, our status bar and navigation stay in place, while the other content uses
Push
Tips for Smart Animation
Before smart animate, Figma didn't place much importance on layer names. As Smart Animate is reliant on
Layer name
and
hierarchy
, this may require you to use a different approach.
Learn more about creating
matching objects with layer name and hierarchy →
We've outlined a few ways to troubleshoot unexpected smart animate results below.
Tip:
We recommend increasing the duration while building your prototype. This lets you see what's happening and make any adjustments.
Layer names
One quick way to create frames for smart animate is to
duplicate
them. This keeps the naming consistent between each frame. You can then add and remove layers to each frame, as needed.
Figma names frames and layers based on the way you duplicate or copy and paste them.
Within a frame:
Figma numbers layers them sequentially. For example: Frame 1, Frame 2 etc.
Between frames
: Figma uses the same name. For example: If you copy
Rectangle 1
from one frame, Figma will paste it as
Rectangle 1
in the next frame.
You may have objects or layer that exist across frames, but have different names in each. Or, you may have the opposite problem - layers that all have the same name, which you don't want to match.
You can view and update your layer names using the
Layers panel
in the left sidebar. Learn how to
rename layers in bulk
View matching layers
Figma has also made it easier to identify layers or objects that exist - or match - between frames. This applies to all layers, groups, frames, and Components.
Open the Prototype tab in the right sidebar.
Hover over an object or layer in the canvas.
Figma will highlight that layer in any other frames it exists in.
Layer order and hierarchy
Smart animate
and
Smart animate matching layers
take into account the layer order, or hierarchy of your layers.
Normally,
Move in
Slide in
will transition the entire destination frame above the original frame. With smart animate matching layers, Figma will move or slide in layers based on their hierarchy, which can cause some confusing or unexpected results.
In our screenshot below, we have two matching objects between our frames (
Explorer 1
and
Explorer 2
). These are the
Status Bar
and the
Navigation
If we have layers above any matching layers, Figma will animate them above the destination frame. In our screenshot below, we can see layers from
Explorer 1
appear above the destination frame.
By moving our matching layers to the top of the hierarchy instead, we can make sure the entire destination frames slide above the original frame.
Group layers
To be more precise in deciding what to smart animate, Figma matches layers based on their
name
and
hierarchy
. This also lets you quickly un-match layers between frames.
Let's say that we have five rectangles in each of our frames. These rectangles contain different content between each frame. We labeled them as
Trip 1
Trip 5
across all three frames.
When we try apply a
Push
transition, smart animate recognizes them as matching layers. Instead of treating these rectangles as new content, Figma smart animates the change to their position.
To change this behavior, we can group the rectangle trips in each frame and give them a unique name.
When we preview our transition, smart animate no longer recognizes these as matching layers. Our content will
Push
in together, making our Prototype look much more realistic.
Smart animate with Slide in and Move in
There are a few things to consider when using
Smart animate matching layers
with Slide or Move transitions.
When selected, Figma will animate any matching layers between frames. This means Figma can't animate the entire destination Frame (B) over the initial Frame (A), like it normally would.
Figma also doesn't include a frame's fill as part of the animation. This can cause layers to overlap, making the transition look messy.
To prevent this, we can add a rectangle with a solid fill behind our other layers. Now, when we view our prototype, the content in each frame slides in together.