URL: https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/31289469907863-Use-the-grid-auto-layout-flow
==================================================

🚧 Grid in auto layout is currently in
open beta
. Some functions and settings may not yet be available to grid. The feature may change and experience bugs or performance issues during the beta period.
Before you start
Who can use this feature
Available on
all plans
Anyone with
can edit
access can use auto layout
Grid is one of three auto layout flows that you can apply to frames. It consists of “cells” organized into rows and columns where you can place layers and assets. Objects can span multiple cells, and when a frame using grid is resized, objects in these cells will respond with it.
The grid auto layout flow is ideal for creating designs like bento boxes, dashboards, and editorial layouts.
This article covers just one aspect of working auto layout. Check out these other articles to learn more about working with auto layout in Figma Design.
Guide to auto layout
: An overview of auto layout, how it works, key properties, and browse a collection of auto layout resources.
Toggle auto layout on a design
: Learn how to add auto layout to frames and layers so that you can start making your designs responsive.
Use the horizontal or vertical flows in auto layout
: Learn about the properties available to the horizontal and vertical flows in auto layout.
Create multi-dimensional auto layout flows
: Combine multiple auto layout flows to build fully responsive components and screens.
Note
: Grid in auto layout is a different feature than the
uniform grid option in layout guides
. Auto layout allows content to resize and reflow, while layout guides are used as visual aids while designing.
Glossary
Cell
: The intersection between a grid column and grid row
Cell layer
, or
cell object
: A layer or object that lives inside of a cell. They are considered children that live inside a grid.
Child
: A layer that lives inside a container
Container
: A structure (such as a cell) or layer (such as a frame or component) that can hold other layers
Nested
: Describes a layer that lives inside a container
Parent
: A layer—namely frames, components, groups, and sections—that contains other layers
Span
: The ability of a cell object to occupy multiple cells at a time
Top-level
: Describes a layer that sits directly on the canvas and does not contain a parent
Track
: An individual row or column
Columns and rows
The grid auto layout flow brings two-dimensional layout control—rows and columns—into your designs. Once you’ve
enabled grid
on a frame, you can choose the desired number of rows and columns by clicking on the grid picker in the right sidebar. Enter a value in the
Number of columns
and
Number of rows
fields, or use the interactive selector.
Note
: If you’re decreasing the number of rows or columns in a grid, you will need to make sure the row or column is empty first.
Resize columns and rows
The size of each column and row is set to
Auto
, and is calculated based on how much space is remaining after factoring in other
spacing
values and column or row sizes.
To resize a track (column or row):
Select the frame.
Hover your cursor over the top or left sides of the frame. You can also hover your cursor over the desired track, or select an item from the desired track. A blue dot will appear.
Hover over the blue dot and and click the label, indicating the track size, that appears.
From there, you can resize the track in the following ways:
Automatic sizing
: For the track to automatically resize based on the available space, type
Auto
then press
Enter
Return
Specific size
: Click and drag the edge of the track to resize to a specific value
Spacing
Gap between
Gap between
sets the distance between columns and rows. You can do this using the
Gap between rows
and
Gap between columns
fields in the right sidebar when the grid auto layout frame is selected. Enter a number value into the field, nudge the values using your arrow keys, or scrub the field using your cursor.
Padding
Padding controls the empty or white space between the boundary of the auto layout frame and the frame’s cells. You can set padding uniformly, vertically and horizontally, or have different values for top, right, bottom, and left padding.
Default
: Padding controls are separated into vertical (top and bottom) and horizontal (left and right) padding by default.
Individual padding
: Click
to use top, right, bottom, and left padding fields.
Uniform padding or CSS shorthand
: Hold
⌘ Command
Ctrl
and click into any padding field. You can also type CSS shorthand.
Example: Entering
1,2,3,4
sets top: 1px, right: 2px, bottom: 3px, and left: 4px
Example: Entering
1,2
sets top/bottom: 1px and left/right: 2px
Tip:
Press the
Tab
key to move between input fields.
Resizing
Note
: Resizing properties are covered in full in our
Guide to auto layout
article. This section covers details specific to the grid auto layout flow. These details may change as the feature develops throughout grid’s beta period.
Resizing options are available to any child layer of a grid auto layout frame, including nested grid auto layout frames. Resizing options are not available to top-level auto layout frames using grid. Learn more about
nesting auto layout frames
The following resizing properties are available:
Fixed
width or height: The dimensions of the cell object or nested grid auto layout frame remains the same, regardless of the size of its parent cell or parent frame
Fill container
: The cell object or nested grid frame stretches to fill the width or height of the cell or parent frame
Work with objects in grid cells
Add and move objects in a grid
Create shapes, frames, and text layers
: Create these elements directly in a cell
Move objects into a grid
: Drag one or more layers and drop it into any empty cell or in between two cells
Reposition child objects
: Drag one or more child objects and drop it into an empty cell, or in between two cells
Duplicate existing objects
: Select one or more child objects and use the keyboard shortcut
⌘ Command
for Mac, and
Ctrl
for Windows
Objects will be placed in succession from left to right, top to bottom. If there are not enough empty cells available, Figma will reposition obstructing objects into available cells or create new rows or columns to accommodate.
Span objects across multiple cells
You can span a child object to stretch across multiple cells in a grid, allowing it to resize when the parent is resized.
To span a child object, select it and resize it on the canvas. While resizing, if the object snaps to the edge of a cell, its auto layout resizing property will update to
Fill container
for the adjusted dimension (width or height).
Align objects to their cells
Within a grid auto layout frame, a child object can be aligned to its cell.
Select a child object and use the alignment buttons in the
Position
section of the right sidebar.
Align left
Align horizontal centers
Align right
Align top
Align vertical centers
If you have multiple child objects selected, each one will align to its respective cell.
Try it out
To get some hands-on practice, grab a copy of our
Grid community file