URL: https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/360041547593-View-and-manage-comments
==================================================

Before you Start
Who can use this feature
Supported on
any team or plan
Anyone with at least
can view
access to a file can add and view comments
Comments takes collaboration to the next level. You can use comments to respond to feedback, tweak your designs and iterate faster—all from the original design file.
When you and your team add comments to a file, they're displayed on the canvas in the regions or locations they were added to. You can view and reply to comments right from the canvas using the browser, desktop, and
mobile app
. You can also view and manage comments from the right sidebar when you enter comment mode.
Comments can be hidden from your canvas at any time ↓
View comments
From the canvas
Comments in a file are pinned to the point or region of the canvas selected by the commenter. How comments display depends on your zoom level of the canvas and the amount of comments.
Pins
: Individual comments are represented by a
. Hover over a pin to preview the comment. Click the pin to open the comment modal, where you can reply
Clusters
: As you zoom on the canvas, multiple comments that are pinned closely to each other are consolidated into clusters. Hover over a cluster to preview the amount of comments and avatars for their authors. Click on a cluster to focus on the comments within it, then hover or click on individual comments to view them.
Click on the comment to open the comment modal. From here, you can:
Hover over the comment body to activate the
to use a reaction.
Click
Mark as unread
Copy link
to the comment, or
Delete
the thread if you added the comment. Click
Resolve
the comment,
to dock the comment to the top of your canvas to keep it open while editing your file, and
to close the comment modal.
Type a
Reply
to the comment, then click
Submit
Hide comments from the canvas ↓
From the right sidebar
You can also access and manage all comments in a file by clicking
in the main toolbar or pressing
to enter comment mode. From here, you can view, search, sort, and filter comments. Click on a comment in the right sidebar to open it in the canvas.
When you're viewing comments in the right sidebar, each comment will include the page it's located in. When you click a comment to open it, you'll be navigated to that page and the location of the comment.
Note:
When you're in comment mode, you won't be able to make any changes to objects in the canvas. Press
Esc
or select another tool to continue editing a file.
Hide comments
Comments are always visible on the canvas by default, whether or not you're in comment mode. If you rather hide comments from your canvas and only see them when in comment mode, you can do so at any time.
To hide comments, use the keyboard shortcut
⇧ Shift
to toggle them on or off. Press
show and hide comments in the Figma mobile app
Sort and filter comments
All the comments in the file will be listed in the right sidebar when you're in comment mode. Click
at the top of the right sidebar to sort and filter which comments you'd like to view.
Comments in the right sidebar can be sorted by:
Date
: displayed in order from the first comment in a thread
Unread
: displayed by date, prioritizing comments that haven't been read
Click
at the top of the right sidebar.
By default, comments are sorted by
Date
. Click
Sort by unread
to prioritize unread comments.
By default, the sidebar will display all comments in a file. Check
Only your threads
to view the comments that are relevant to you. This includes:
Comments you have been @mentioned in.
Comments on threads you've replied to.
Comments you've created that collaborators have replied to.
You can also decide if you'd like to
Show resolved comments
. Click on the setting to turn it off and on.
Tip:
You can also open a comment from the notification. Click the link in your email to
View comment
. If the comment was made on the canvas, the email link will direct you to the canvas view. If the comment was made on a prototype, the email link will take you presentation view instead.
Learn how to edit and move comments →
Reply and react to comments
Anyone can add, view, and reply to comments, including
viewers
Select the comment in the canvas, or from the right sidebar.
The comment box will appear with a
Reply
field attached. Click
Reply
and start typing in your message, or hover over the body and click
to react to the comment. You can also add any
emoji
@mentions
as needed.
Click
or press
Return
Enter
to add your comment to the thread.
Add further replies to the thread as needed.
Tip:
You can also reply to comment notifications from our
Slack
Microsoft teams
integrations.
Resolve comments
Once the feedback has been addressed, or a resolution reached, you can
Resolve
the comment.
This will hide the comment from both the right sidebar and the canvas.
Select the comment in the canvas, or from the right sidebar.
Click
in the top-right corner to mark it as
Resolved.
We will hide the comment from both the right sidebar and the canvas.
Unresolve comments
If a comment is resolved by mistake, you can undo this action by unchecking the
in the comment. Click
in the right sidebar when in comment mode and toggle the
Show resolved comments
filter on.
Learn how to sort and filter comments ↑
Delete comments
You can also delete any comment you post. If you delete a comment with replies, this will delete the entire thread.
Caution:
Deleting a comment is a permanent action. It's not possible to restore a deleted comment, even if you restore an earlier version of the file.
Delete a single comment
Select the comment in the canvas, or from the right sidebar.
Click
next to the comment.
Choose
Delete comment
from the options.
Delete an entire thread
You can also choose to delete an entire thread. This will delete both the initial comment and any replies.
Select the comment in the canvas, or from the right sidebar.
Click
next to the comment's title.
Select
Delete thread
from the options.
Click
Delete
to confirm.