URL: https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/7938814091287-Add-descriptions-to-styles-components-and-variables
==================================================

Documentation makes sure the people using your design system have the right information and context. It can help guide proper application, variant and state usage, and accessibility and contrast requirements.
Documentation is not just for designers, it’s also important to consider other people who will be using your design system. This includes the developers who will be implementing your designs.
At the moment, there are a few ways to incorporate design system documentation in your Figma libraries:
Give
styles
components
, and
variables
meaningful names
Add short descriptions to styles, components, and variables
Add links to external documentation to components
Add descriptions to any library updates
Tip!
Looking for more guidance around style and component libraries? Check out these best practice guides:
Components, styles, and shared libraries
Component architecture in Figma
Components
You can attach a short
description
and a
link
to your components. This allows you to better communicate a component’s intended use.
Figma will look at component descriptions when returning search results. So you can use descriptions to tag components with relevant keywords. It won’t be possible to capture every detail in this description field, so have a think about what information will be most important.
If you have design system documentation in an external tool, you can add a link to that documentation.
Note:
If you combine existing components as a component set, Figma will apply any existing links and descriptions to the individual variants. You can view and edit this description when you have the variant selected.
Add descriptions and links
Add a description and any links to your main components. You’ll need edit access to the library file to add or update descriptions. You can add descriptions and links to:
Main components, including those with component properties
Entire component sets and individual variants in a component set
Open the file where your component library lives. If you have an instance selected, you can select
Go to main component in library
to view the component in the library file.
Select main component, component set or a specific variant within the component set.
Click
to open the
Component configuration
details:
Add a
description
for this component. Figma will look at this description when searching for components, so you can use this field to tag relevant keywords.
Add a
link
to external documentation, or another file with further explanations or guidance.
Click
or anywhere outside the modal to apply changes.
Figma will show descriptions and links in common style and component locations in files.
View component descriptions and links ↓
Styles
There are a few tools you can use to help guide people toward the right styles for their designs.
You can use the slash or dash naming process to organize your styles into groups. We recommend giving your
styles
names that are relevant to their use case.
You can also add descriptions to styles. Descriptions allow you to show extra information about a style’s intended usage. You can
view a style’s description
when you hover over the style in the style picker.
Add style descriptions
Add a description to the style definition in the library file. You need to
create a style
before you can add a description to it.
Click an empty spot in the canvas.
In the
Design
panel, view any style definitions in the file.
Hover over the style and click
when it appears:
In the
Edit style
menu add a
Description
using the field.
Click outside the menu or use the
to close the menu.
Tip!
You can find and open the style definition from any layer that uses that style:
Select a layer that supports that style.
Click
to open the style picker.
Right-click the style and select
Edit style
Variables
You can use the slash naming process to organize your variables into groups. We recommend giving your
variables
names that are relevant to their use case.
You can also add descriptions to variables. Descriptions allow you to show extra information about a variable's intended usage.
From the file where the variable lives, click an empty spot on the canvas to deselect any objects.
From the right sidebar, find the
Local variables
section.
Click
Open variables.
Find the variable from the Variables modal. Hover over the variable row, right-click, and select
Edit variable
Enter your description into the description box.
Libraries
You can also add descriptions when publishing updates to your library. These descriptions show in both the library modal and in the file’s version history and are great for communicating high-level changes to your library.
We recommend using these descriptions in addition to component and style descriptions. Style and component descriptions are visible to anyone who interacts with the style or description. Library descriptions are only available at a file and library level, so have much less visibility.
Figma will show a notification in any files with styles and components from that library. You can view a list of updated styles and components and the description (if included).
Review and accept library updates →
View descriptions and documentation
You can view descriptions and links when interacting with styles and components in these places:
Instance menu in right sidebar
Assets panel in left sidebar
Style picker from properties in the right sidebar
Inspect panel in Dev Mode
Properties panel (if you have view only access to the file)
Instance menu in right sidebar
View component details in the instance section of the
Design
panel in the right sidebar. You need
edit
access to the file to access the
Design
panel.
Figma shows a preview of the description underneath the component / instance name.
Click
Show more
to view the full description and link in the documentation window. Click outside of the modal or use the
button to close.
Collaborators can also click
to view the original library file. This is great if you have additional guidance for how to use components.
Assets panel
You can view component names and descriptions in the
Assets
panel. Figma will also use component descriptions when you search for a component.
Hover over the component in the
Assets
panel of the left sidebar to view the component’s details. You can see both the component
name
and
description
from list or grid view.
You need to have
can edit
access to a file to open the
Assets
panel. You’ll only need view access to the library to use components from that library.
Libraries picker
View the name and description of a style or variable from the
Libraries
picker.
From the Fill or Stroke section of the right sidebar, click
Apply styles and variables
to open the
Libraries
picker.
Hover over a style or variable to view its description in a tooltip:
Dev Mode
If you have access to
Dev Mode
, you can view style and components descriptions in the
Inspect
panel. View component descriptions in the
Component
section, underneath the component preview.
Properties panel (view only access)
If you have view access to the file, and don't have access to Dev Mode, you can view component descriptions in the
Properties
panel of the right sidebar.
View the name of the component or instance. If the component lives in another file, you’ll also see the
Go to main component in library
icon to view the component in the library file.
View the description. If the component or instance is a variant, you’ll see descriptions for both the component set and the variant.
View other documentation and properties attached to the component.