URL: https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/360040449873-Select-layers-and-objects
==================================================

Before you Start
Who can use this feature
Available on
all plans
Anyone with
can view
can edit
access to a file can select objects in the canvas or the Layers panel
Anyone with
can edit
access to a file can can select matching layers
Before you can update any properties associated with an object or layer, you will need to select it. We'll cover all the basics for selecting objects, as well as some lesser-known tips and tricks.
Select individual layers
You can select layers in the canvas itself, or from the Layers panel. Click on an object in the canvas to select it.
Select nested layers
If you're working on more complex designs, you may have objects nested within groups or frames.
We refer to nested objects as
children
, and the frames or groups that they nest within as
parents
. Learn more about
parent, child and sibling relationships
When you click on an object that is part of a group or frame, we'll select the parent by default.
Double-click
on the object - or press the
enter
key - to select one level of nesting down. Repeat this process until you select the correct child elements.
Deep select
If there are many levels of nesting, you can use
deep select
to select a nested child layer or the top-level frame. Hold down the modifier key to select the top-level frame or a nested layer or object by clicking it on the canvas.
Mac:
⌘ Command
Windows:
Control
Select layer menu
There are a couple of different ways to select nested objects. The
Select Layer menu
allows you to choose which specific layer you'd like to select on the canvas.
Right-click to open the context menu.
Hover over the
Select layer
option.
Select a layer from a list of layers underneath the cursor's location. We show the layer name and icon in the same order as the Layers panel.
Tip:
Move between nested objects using the keyboard shortcuts:
Select Child
enter
Select Parent
shift
enter
Select Next Sibling
tab
Select Previous Sibling
shift
tab
Layers panel
Every object in the canvas has a corresponding layer in the Layers panel.
Click the
Layers
tab in the left sidebar to open the layers panel. Or, use the keyboard shortcut:
Mac:
Option
Windows:
Ctrl
If you hover over the layer in the panel, a blue box will highlight that layer's location on the canvas.
Click on the layer name in the layers panel to select it.
If there are any frames or groups on the canvas, we will nest the child objects within the parent. Click the arrow next to a frame, group, or component to view any child layers.
Can't see the layer highlight on hover?
Adjust your preferences in the menu: select
Preferences > Highlight on hover
Select multiple layers
You can also select more than one object or layer at a time.
This is great when you want to:
Update a property across more than one layer
Resize layers in bulk
Move a collection of objects
Create a group, frame, or component from the selection
Note:
When you select more than one layer, you can access
Selection Colors
in the right sidebar.
This allows you to update individual Fills, Styles and Strokes in a mixed selection. Learn more in our
View and adjust colors in a mixed selection
article.
Canvas
Select an object in the canvas.
Hold
Shift
and click on another object.
This will allow you to select as many objects as you like.
Tip:
Click an object a second time while holding
Shift
to remove it from from the current selection.
Selection marquee
The marquee tool allows you to select all objects in a specific area of the canvas.
Click and hold on an empty part of the canvas.
Drag the cursor across any objects you'd like to select.
A blue box will appear around each object are in the selection.
To select nested layers, hold down the modifier key and drag the marquee across the objects:
Mac:
Windows:
Ctrl
To remove an object from the selection, hold down the
Shift
key and click on the object.
Note:
It's possible to select nested objects without selecting the parent object. This is something to be mindful of, especially when selecting objects to move them!
If you select a top-level frame, only other top-level layers will be selected.
When you select a parent object, this also selects any child objects. This allows you to move everything at once.
Select multiple layers in the Layers panel
When you select layers in the Layers panel, there are some different rules:
To select
every layer between two layers
Click on the first layer to select
Hold
Shift
Select the last layer.
Figma will select every layer between those two layers in the Layers panel.
To select
individual layers
Click on the first layer to select
Hold down the modifier key
Mac:
Windows:
Ctrl
Select any other layers you want to select
Select matching objects
Matching objects are identical layers that exist across more than one frame or group.
You can select all matching objects at once to save time when editing or prototyping them. For example, many app designs use a search bar across the top of each frame. You can quickly select them and make edits to them at the same time.
Learn how to identify matching objects →
To select matching objects:
Select an object inside a frame or group. The frame or group should sit a the top-level on the canvas or inside a section.
Select matching layers using one of the following:
Click
Select matching layers
in the toolbar.
Keyboard shortcut:
Mac:
⌥ Option
⌘ Command
Windows:
Alt
⌃ Control
While pressing
⇧ Shift
, click and hold your cursor on the canvas and drag it over the matching frames to create a selection marquee. Only matching objects are added or removed from the selection.
While pressing
⇧ Shift
, click matching objects to add them to the selection. You won't need to double-click objects nested deep inside other groups or frames.
All selected objects are wrapped in a blue bounding box. You can then make edits to them all at once.
Learn how to edit objects in bulk →
Note:
Objects with sections can only match with other objects in that section.
Select all layers
The
Edit
menu lets you select multiple objects based on their properties. This allows you to select all layers in your file that have the same properties.
This is helpful when you want to adjust the properties of all those layers at once.
Select a layer or layers in the
Layers panel.
Go to the
File menu
and select
Edit
from the options.
Choose to
Select All
other layers that have the same:
Properties
Fill
Stroke
Effect
Text Properties
Font
or another Instance
Want to select everything on the canvas?
Use the keyboard shortcut
⌘ Command
Ctrl
Collapse all layers
When you expand a layer to reveal its nested layers,
Collapse layers
appears in the top right corner of the Layers panel. Click
to collapse all expanded layers.
If you've already selected a layer when you collapse layers, all expanded layers except for your selection will collapse.
Locked and hidden layers
If you hide a layer we won't show it in the
Select layer
menu. You will need to
toggle visibility on
to select it.
If you lock an object or layer, you can't select it via the normal left-click selection process. However, you can select it via the
Select layer
menu.
We include
locked layers
in the
Select layer
menu with a padlock icon.
Tip:
Smart Selection
allows you to select two or more objects in the canvas. From there you can adjust their arrangement, or the spacing between them.
Create a 1D Smart Selection from a list of objects that align on one axis, like a column or row. Or, a 2D Smart Selection of objects in a grid or gallery-like structure.
Deselect objects or layers
To clear your selection entirely:
Click anywhere on the canvas
Use the keyboard shortcut:
Esc
To remove an object from a selection:
Hold down the
Shift
key and click on the object again
Note:
If you click on a parent object, this will deselect the parent and any child objects within it.
To select the inverse of your current selection:
Use the keyboard shortcut:
Mac:
Shift
Windows:
Ctrl
Shift
This removes the current selection, then selects everything on the canvas you didn't select before.
Select objects in view-only mode
For collaborators with
can view
access, the experience of selecting objects is a bit different.
When you make your selection on the canvas, Figma will:
Outline your selection using a solid purple box.
Outline the parent of your current selection using a dashed purple box.
Show the name of the selected layer(s) at the top of the
Properties
panel in the right sidebar.
If applicable, show the
Parent Component
underneath the selected layer in the
Properies
panel. Click the
in the
Properties
panel to select the parent component.
Show the
properties
layout
, and
colors
for the selected layer.